JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to the second
part of my conversation with
billionaire Warren Buffett.
I spoke with him last week in
Omaha last week at the Nebraska
Furniture Mart, the largest
furniture store in America. It
is just one small piece of a
huge portfolio of investments
owned by his company, Berkshire
Hathaway, but one that Buffett
takes particular pride
in as part of his legacy.
Both the Senate and House
Republican health care reform
bills would roll back taxes that
are part of Obamacare. Buffett
has taken issue with that.
And that's where my
conversation picks up.
One of the things the
Republicans are looking
at, as you know very
well, is doing away with
the so-called Obamacare
surcharge on people
earning a higher income.
WARREN BUFFETT, Chairman and
CEO, Berkshire Hathaway: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Republicans
are looking at taking that
away, or doing away with that,
which would mean a tax
cut, you have said...
WARREN BUFFETT: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: ...
for people like you.
WARREN BUFFETT: Yes.
Well, I brought my tax return
along for the last year. I
filed this on April 15. And if
the Republican -- well, if the
bill that passed the House with
217 votes had been in effect
this year, I would have saved --
I can give you the exact figure.
I would have saved $679,999,
or over 17 percent
of my tax bill.
There's nothing ambiguous about
that. I will be given a 17
percent tax cut. And the people
it's directed at are couples
with $250,000 or more of
income. You could entitle this,
you know, Relief for the Rich
Act or something, because it
-- I have got friends where it
would have saved them as
much as -- it gets into the
$10-million-and-up figure.
But I might point out --
it might be an interesting
question. I think
members of the Senate and
the House get $174,000 a year.
But most of them have -- if
you look at the disclosures,
they have substantial other
income. If they get to higher
than $250,000, as a married
couple, or $200,000 as a
single person, they have given
themselves a big, big tax cut,
if they -- if they
voted for this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, speaking
of taxes, let's just use that
as an entry point to talk about
it.
You shared some of your
tax return with us for
2016. Thank you very much.
WARREN BUFFETT: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But before I
ask you about that, how wealthy
are you? I mean, I'm reading
that you're $77 billion?
WARREN BUFFETT: Ninety-nine
percent of my net worth is
in Berkshire Hathaway stock.
Every share of that stock has
been pledged to philanthropy.
So, I'm a trustee for
that stock. So, it will
go to society. And then
the rest will as well.
But if you add up what's in
my name, if we go down to my
safe deposit box, we will find
some stock certificates
that are worth that much.
But as I -- you know, I have
written, they have no utility
to me. They can't do anything
to make me happier. I'm already
happy. I would be happy with,
you know -- certainly with
$100,000 a year, I could be
very happy. And they can't buy
anything for me that I want.
If they did, I would buy it.
And they do have utility
to others, so I have got
this system to essentially
try and translate
that into vaccines and education
and all of that sort of thing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The reason I
bring that up, Warren Buffett,
is that that's your wealth,
your worth. And yet, on
your tax return, you earned
$19 million-something.
WARREN BUFFETT: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF:
Nineteen-and-a-half
million last year.
Your effective tax rate was
16.3 percent, which -- we
looked it up. This is what an
average couple, a married
couple, no children, taking the
standard deduction would pay on
an income of $136,000. In other
words, a couple who earned --
you earn 143 times more than
they do, but your tax rate
is the same as theirs.
WARREN BUFFETT: Yes, I
have pointed that out
in past, in the past.
And it's even worse than
you say, Judy, because
you're looking at what
that couple would pay
in federal income tax. But they
are also paying payroll taxes,
in overwhelming cases. And
my cleaning lady has a 15
percent tax, you know, just from
Social -- just from the Social
Security that she and
her employer pay, but
it's kind of incredible.
And now they want to cut it.
No, they want to cut it for
me. I mean, you know, they -- I
don't look like somebody
that deserves a cut.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, they --
the Republicans are talking
about lowering taxes...
WARREN BUFFETT: Absolutely.
JUDY WOODRUFF: ... on the...
WARREN BUFFETT: They want to
cut my tax 17 percent. They saw
those figures and were shocked
that I was paying
that much, apparently.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, among other
things, they're talking about
doing away with some of the
- - some of the deductions,
charitable deductions,
maybe, mortgage deductions,
maybe, state and
local tax -- taxes
paid as deductions.
Do you have a thought
about all those?
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, you can't
really talk about specifics
without looking at the whole
thing.
But if they're talking about
making it revenue-neutral,
you know, I think if
they're going to make
it revenue-neutral, it ought to
be -- it ought to be something
other than revenue-neutral
to the guys like me. Our
rates should go up, allowing
others to go down somewhat.
I think there ought to be
minimum taxes for people that
make $10 million a year, and a
different one at a million
a year, but certainly
at $10 million a year.
JUDY WOODRUFF: They also, as you
know, want to tackle business
corporate tax rates. They're
talking about the current
corporate rate, lowering it
from 35 percent to 15 percent?
The president has talked about
-- I guess Speaker Paul Ryan
this week said 20 percent.
What would that
mean for you if...
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, it
would mean, for Berkshire,
in all probability,
that we would pay less
in U.S. federal income taxes.
But until you see the final
thing, you can't tell. Berkshire
Hathaway is the second largest
corporation on the Fortune 500
this year. I don't know any
case where our competitiveness
is being hurt by the federal
income tax rate on corporations.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Estate
taxes, a thought about that?
WARREN BUFFETT: Oh, estate
taxes, I mean, I -- you hear
people call it the death tax.
There are going to be
two-and-a-half million
people die in the
United States this year.
How many estate tax returns
are there going to be? Probably
about 5,000. And the interesting
thing is, if I talked to
somebody about welfare
mothers or something
like that, they say how
debilitating it is to have these
food stamps, and it takes away
their incentive to do anything.
If a kid comes out of the right
womb in this country, they
have got food stamps for their
rest of their life. They just
call them stocks and bonds. And
their welfare officer is their
trust officer.
I mean, I think I -- I
think having a significant
estate tax that starts
at a fair-sized level
is -- if you're going to have
to raise $3.5 trillion, I
think that's a good source of
revenue, and that I -- it
shouldn't apply to, you know,
99 percent of the people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You have been
very -- I mean, very open about
your own taxes, and people
have taken a look at that,
and they have also looked at
Berkshire Hathaway. It has been
pointed out that Berkshire
Hathaway does take
advantage of the legal
ability to defer taxes,
and...
WARREN BUFFETT: Sure.
Well, that's because...
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I saw a
number, something like $75
billion in deferred taxes?
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, that's we
haven't cashed things that we
-- just like you, if you have
got a stock that's gone up a
whole lot, until you sell it.
But that's just the law. And
we're going to - - we don't
have any of the Cayman Islands
or anything like that stuff.
But we follow the law, and we
got a million shareholders.
And I think they probably
expect us to do that. That
doesn't mean I don't think the
law shouldn't be
changed in some way.
But I follow the law in terms
of my personal return. I do
not send an extra $5 million
to the Treasury.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Your
philanthropy, we have
talked about it a little
bit. It's legendary.
You and Bill Gates, Melinda
Gates have come together and,
I guess, broken all records
imaginable for giving.
At the same time, it's being
pointed out that you're also
making -- you first made that
pledge, what, 10, 11 years ago.
WARREN BUFFETT: 2006, yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: 2006.
You're now making so much
more even than you did then.
People are saying, well, wait a
minute, you know, is he
going to be giving more away?
How do you think about that?
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I have
got it set up so that, if I make
more, I do give more, because
I'm giving on a schedule,
and that schedule ends
10 years after I die.
So, it's all -- so I'm not
setting up -- and, actually,
they can't use it for endowments
or anything. It has to be
spent within 10 years, really,
after my estate's closed, but
call it after I die.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How
much influence do you
think you had on other,
others with wealth, with
means to give, to be as
generous as you have been?
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, a lot of
people come back to me on that.
And basically, I said, you
know, if you're extremely rich,
and you have got children,
my theory was, you give them
enough so they can do anything,
but not enough so they can
do nothing. And I have had more
people come back to it, so,
apparently I was smarter in
1980, whatever it was, than
I am now. But that seemed
to have some influence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are you
comfortable today with
what you're giving? I
mean, does it feel...
WARREN BUFFETT: It's
exactly what I wanted to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Does it
feel like the right thing
to be doing right now?
WARREN BUFFETT: It's the right
thing. It's the right thing,
because it's going -- it's
going to people who believe,
as the Gates, for example, that
every life is of equal value.
I mean, the truth is, I have
got a lot of wealth, little
pieces of paper, says Berkshire
Hathaway on it. They are claim
checks on all kinds of goods
and services in the world.
They can buy anything. I can
buy 400-foot yachts and have 20
homes and all that. I wouldn't
be happier. But they
can buy anything.
And once they move into the
hands of people who are working
like hell on getting something
accomplished in areas I want
them to -- you know, I love
the idea of getting them used,
and that's what they're doing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You said it
wouldn't make you happy to have
a hundred, 200 homes and yachts
and so forth. What does
make Warren Buffett happy?
WARREN BUFFETT: I just have
a lot of fun doing my job.
I mean, I can do anything
I want, basically,
as long as it doesn't
involve athletic ability,
or something like that.
(LAUGHTER)
WARREN BUFFETT: But if it's
something I can buy, I can
buy anything, basically.
I have been on 400-foot yachts,
and I have - - I have lived
the life a little bit with
people that have 10 homes and
everything. And I live in the
same house I bought in 1958.
And if I could spend $100
million on a house that would
make me a lot happier, I would
do it.
But, for me, that's the happiest
House In the world. And it's
because it's got memories,
and people come back, and all
that sort of thing. So, I am
doing what I love to do with
people I love. And it doesn't
get any better than that, Judy.
And -- but I should be. I mean,
why in the hell -- why should
I be working at 86 at something
that I don't like or
with people I don't like?
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I see
you're drinking a Cherry Coke.
WARREN BUFFETT: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How
do you stay healthy?
WARREN BUFFETT: Well, I
think I stay healthy partly
by being happy, actually.
I think that -- I think it
really helps if your stomach
isn't grinding all the time,
and you're doing things you
don't want to do, or you're
working with people that -- you
know? So I have gone very
light on the diet advice.
I eat like a normal 6-year-old,
but if you look at the
mortality statistics, I mean,
6-year-olds don't
die very often.
(LAUGHTER)
WARREN BUFFETT: I mean, the
diet's doing something for them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How
much sleep do you get?
WARREN BUFFETT: I get quite a
bit of sleep. I like to sleep.
So I will usually sleep eight
hours a night, and that --
no, I have no desire to get to
work at 4:00 in the morning.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So many people
look at you and they think,
oh, my goodness, this man,
he's accomplished so much.
He's been so successful.
He's 86 years old, and
he's still going strong.
WARREN BUFFETT: I love it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, what do
they -- so, what's the secret?
WARREN BUFFETT: The secret is
to find what you love to do.
I mean, I tell the students
look for the job that you would
take if you didn't need a job.
I mean, it's that simple. And
I was lucky enough to find
it very early in life. And
then the second thing is to
have people around you that make
feel good every day, and make
you a better person than
you otherwise would be.
I have more fun doing this than
anything else I can think of
in the world, and I have seen
a lot of other things you
could do in the world.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Warren
Buffett, thank you very much.
WARREN BUFFETT: Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And he does
come across as a happy man.
And, for the record,
Warren Buffett is CEO
of Berkshire Hathaway,
which owns BNSF Railway.
It is one of the funders
of the "NewsHour."